# ABSTRACT

The Automatic Windshield Wiper is used to wash the Windshield of cars and other heavy vehicles like buses and trucks during rainy conditions.It has been implemented by using Atmega328 in a simulation software named SimulIDE using C programming. We can install this system in cars or buses or trucks to clean the Windshield. It can prevent the vehicles from accidents during rainy climates where the driver may forget to operate the windshield so this system operates the windshield automatically. This uses optical sensors to detect if it is raining or not. The sensor projects infrared light into the windshield at a 45-degree angle. If the glass is dry, most of this light is reflected back into the sensor by the front of the windshield. If water droplets are on the glass, they reflect the light in different directions -- the wetter the glass, the less light makes it back into the sensor. We have interfaced two servo motors for movement of windshield wiper to clean the windshield glass.Accurate sensor information allows the processor to operate the system so that the electronic modules can optimize their performance and maximize their reliability no matter in any working conditions. This project can also be used in industries if the servomotor is functioned to operate the conveyors and also in packing processes in industries if it is modified to a little extent. The type of input sensor and signal needed may vary depending on the type of controlled process. Typical input sensors include optical sensors, Infrared sensors, humidity sensors. In this project we have used a voltage source with variable resistance to depict the change in potential of the optical sensor with respect to variation in light reflection from windshield.